Playing poker is somewhat a recent hobby that has now become a preferred outlet for personal entertainment.  I remember the days when I first began playing with my college buddies for five bucks knowing that a win would secure a free night of booze – usually Natty Light. It seemed only natural because I’ve never been afraid to gamble.  My gambling bone marrow was strengthened by a mixture of my mother at the end of disputes saying “I bet you a million dollars I’m right” and the many moments on the blacktop betting 50 cents to a dollar that I would make a three.  Bets with any percentage of control is like making a pass at every women in the bar … you always have a chance.

Asian poker tourAfter a few trips to Tunica, MS (Maaan, I love that place), I finally got enough gumption to sit at an actual casino table.  I was proud that day as I sat down with $100 worth of chips and before I could say my ABC’s, the majority of my chips dissipated in a single hand. I learned a valuable lesson that night – don’t be afraid to fold. My most recent escapade to Tunica, once known as ‘Sugar Ditch Alley’, was the moment my game became so sweet, I got a cavity.  I didn’t win any money that night, but most importantly I survived and built the confidence needed to sit at the ‘Knights of the Round’ table.

I spent many months in the desert dungeon of Afghanistan tweaking my game and learning the art of poker.  It was like I was the bride from Kill Bill in the middle of nowhere learning how to perform Pai Mei’s Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique. It was time to put my skills to the test and what better moment than on my birthday with two of my best friends – I flopped a set a kings my first hand and played them with essence.

Never in my wildest imagination I thought my interest in poker would lead to a seat at the main event in Cebu City, Philippines, where the Asian Poker Tour kicked off its annual event. This is what brought me to the wonderful island of Cebu and my unforgettable experience in the Philippines (PI).

I was at work one day when the poker aficionado, who will be named Jay, came by the work area to promote the idea of heading to Cebu City. I would never tell him this but I’ve purposefully watched his poker game, taken what I’ve learned and applied it to my own personal poker development.

The most important thing I’ve learned that propelled my game from Ernie on Sesame Street to Rick Ross poppin’ bottles in VIP was how to bet.  Learning how to bet, when to bet, and who to bet is an art of its own, I will not delve to deep but here’s a quick example. If you have the nuts (best hand) a newb will predictably, from excitement, over bet in this situation. A good player will bet just the right amount to get you to call. The size of the pot determines how much you should bet.

Jay’s biggest selling point was the low amount buy in for the main event along with other ‘cheaply’ side events.  For a major poker tour, $1,100 USD and $250 USD side events compared to 2, 3 or even 4K for other events on the tour seemed like a steal.  We then proceeded to convince our other buddy who will be named Tom to hitch along and before you could pop a bag of popcorn, hotels were booked, flights purchased – Philippines here we come.

Asian poker tour

I first landed in Manila and all I could think about were the overload of stories I heard about spending time in the PI.  These stories mostly consisted of binge drinking, bar hopping and searching for that perfect Filipina beauty.  My first poker experience in the PI was an interesting one.  Jay, my girlfriend and I walked into this medium sized room with only poker tables and maybe a few slots tucked away in the corner.  The place had a poker club feel and the layout of the room put us at center attention coupled with having to cross all tables to get to the open chairs.

You meet every kind of personality and character when sitting at a poker table. The many reasons why I love poker is the bezel of people it attracts.  You have the high roller, he’s the one sporting the Rolex as he calls to the staff “bring me all my chips”.  I tend to love these personalities because they usually are below average players that like to throw around their chips more than Shaquille O’Neal threw around his weight in a NBA game.  There’s the grinder.  It’s somewhat easy to point out the grinder, just look for the person who has a huge chip stack and never seems to play a hand.

Then you have the hustler, this person is usually a local who likes to buy in with the minimal and hope to catch a run to double or triple up.  Be careful when going head to head with the hustler, they usually have the nuts.  You always have a women or two at the table and they’re usually rocks – I’ve never seen a women go ‘all in’ in a cash game.

One of my favorite is the rounder.  They’re the individual that seems to win every hand or fold when you least expect them to.  They are the best players at the table as the chips from the fish meticulously glide their way like a graceful figure skater right to them.  Watch out for the person getting a massage while playing and still continues to stack chips – he’s your rounder.

The goal was to gamble during the day and put together some solid cash table sessions which in turn would pay for the nightly festivities.  This is strictly cash games which is completely different from tournament play and cash is where I strive.  While in the PI, I never lost money playing cash.  My best session resulted in a 51,000 peso (˜1100 USD) turnaround while sitting with 10,000 pesos (˜220 USD) worth of chips.  I busted some heads that night and some coin flips went my way.  It helped I was at a table with those high rollers I referred to earlier and I became the rounder – yet I wasn’t getting a massage.

I caught an amazing boat on the river while going all in on the turn.  I flopped a set and he turned a straight. It was on as I put him on a straight but wasn’t able to bet him off the flop.  The turn comes and he bets big.  I started to think because I had a feeling he might just want to bet me off the pot.  Tough to do when you flop a set.  I began to talk. I shot some questions his way as I tried to get a feel of what he might be holding.  After some thinking I came to the conclusion he might have the straight but I had to know for sure.  I can’t just call there because the opportunity he may catch a runner is high.

I had to make a stir to really see what he’s holding.  So I made a brash move and went all in … Snap call! Ouch, he immediately turns over his straight and I was beat.  But wait, the magically enchanting river where not even David Blain himself can determine what will happen saved my poker life for that session; I caught the last runner to make a boat. I had over 30,000 pesos at risk and was able to capitalize.  It takes moments like these in a cash game to really make big bucks – high rollers and some luck! They say in sports it’s better to be lucky than good, in poker it behooves you to be both.

The time had finally come to buy into the main event.  I was riding high from my success at the cash tables and after dropping a 50,000 peso buy in, it was time for business.  I quickly realized my inexperience among a plethora of true poker pros.  I felt like that one thoroughbred at the Kentucky Derby that started to look around at the favorites and doubt why they entered.

There were guys with so much poker flare I mistook them for a Nascar Sprint Cup car.  There was a million plus pesos on the line and you could tell a large portion of player’s income depended on it.  I call them lifers.  I wasn’t good or even close to lucky enough to win a event of this nature.  Yeah, I had a great run at the cash table, but these guys meant business – and I just got to Wall Street!

I sat there in my assigned seat attempting to play my most solid game possible.  I continued to look around and pick up on whatever I could.  Who is chip lead, who’s playing tight or lose? I wasn’t catching a single hand and the first time I made a move, I was too aggressive which caused everybody to fold.  Right before the 30 minute break, I decided to make another move – which ended up being my last.  As people started to depart from the table I figured a stern all in bluff call was applicable.  It’s time for break, this person hasn’t really made a move all game, I’ll just fold – Wrong!

As I sat there with my heart thumpin’ like a tap dancer, I could only hope he would fold – I had zero outs.  I did my best to appear straight-faced (which I’m surprisingly good at) as he took all of 7 minutes to finally call. Boom – he had turned an ace, and I had absolutely nothing.  My tournament life lasted an uneventful 2 hours and like Usain Bolt in the 100m dash – it was over before he could start beating his chest.

As I walked up the stairs in my infamous suit coat I love to wear when playing poker, I was sad.  I expected to at least last until the night, but the game of poker is about discipline, consistency and catching a few breaks.  I had to pinch myself when it was over because the thought of competing for 30k plus playing cards was like playing Jordan one on one – never going to happen.  As I exited the double doors at the Waterfront Casino Hotel in Cebu City, my sadness quickly left me.

The weather was beautiful and there still was a new country to explore.  My last night I ran into the man who has made the most money playing the APT, and as he was giving me some pointers I realized there is still so much more to learn.  From Sewanee to Murfreesboro, then Tunica to Afghanistan, and finally Cebu City, I ask where will this poker spree take me? Hopefully not to the bank to withdraw more cash!